Update logging docs (#10734)
PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning: docs/source/extensions/logging.rst

Logging
#######

Supported Loggers
=================

The following are loggers we support:

.. currentmodule:: pytorch_lightning.loggers

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: classtemplate.rst

    CometLogger
    CSVLogger
    MLFlowLogger
    NeptuneLogger
    TensorBoardLogger

>     TestTubeLogger

Reviewer: Should we avoid mentioning `TestTubeLogger`? It's deprecated and unmaintained.

Author: yeah, and it will be removed within v1.7? docs will be updated too in the removal PR.

Reviewer: I am personally not a fan of having deprecated features in our docs at all. As an user, I'd rather not learn about this only to later notice it will be removed.

But if you prefer leaving this here until it's finally removed, that's okay. you've got my approval :P

Reviewer 2: I agree with @carmocca, we should remove it.

Author: yeah makes sense.. will update :)

Logging
#######

Supported Loggers
=================

The following are loggers we support:

.. note::
    The following loggers will normally plot an additional chart (**global_step VS epoch**).

.. note::

>     Depending on the loggers you use, there might be some additional charts.

Reviewer 3: Can we
1) move the notes to the bottom (seems distracting especially directly in the introduction of the main section here
2) combine the two into one note (could be bullet points)

Alternatively just make it regular text (which I would prefer), because these are items that are anyway immediately visible once they open the logger.

Author: done!

Logging
#######

> Lightning supports the most popular logging frameworks (TensorBoard, Comet, etc...).

Reviewer 2: I liked the statement as it emphasis on our good support for loggers

Author: we have them right below: https://140783-178626720-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/html/extensions/logging.html

=================

The following are loggers we support:

.. currentmodule:: pytorch_lightning.loggers

.. autosummary::
    :toctree: generated
    :nosignatures:
    :template: classtemplate.rst

    CometLogger
    CSVLogger
    MLFlowLogger
    NeptuneLogger
    TensorBoardLogger
    TestTubeLogger
    WandbLogger

The above loggers will normally plot an additional chart (**global_step VS epoch**). Depending on the loggers you use, there might be some additional charts too.

> By default, Lightning uses ``TensorBoard`` logger under the hood, and stores the logs to a directory (by default in ``lightning_logs/``).

Reviewer 2: Could you hyperlink PyTorch Tensorboard?

Author: we have already listed with links 2 lines above: https://140783-178626720-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/html/extensions/logging.html

.. testcode::

    from pytorch_lightning import Trainer

>     # Automatically logs to a directory (by default lightning_logs/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Automatically logs to a directory (by default ``lightning_logs/``)
```

    trainer = Trainer()

To see your logs:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Install tensorboard

>     pip install tensorboard

Reviewer 2: Isn't it installed by default for Lightning? I don't think the installment command is necessary

>     # Install tensorboard
>     pip install tensorboard

Author: ```suggestion
```

    tensorboard --logdir=lightning_logs/

> To run tensorboard in a jupyter notebook environment, use the following in a jupyter cell:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize tensorboard in a jupyter notebook environment, run the following command in a jupyter cell:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    %reload_ext tensorboard

>     %tensorboard --logdir=lightning_logs/

Reviewer 4: Neat !

You can also pass a custom Logger to the :class:`~pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer.Trainer`.

.. testcode::

    from pytorch_lightning import loggers as pl_loggers

    tb_logger = pl_loggers.TensorBoardLogger(save_dir="logs/")
    trainer = Trainer(logger=tb_logger)

Choose from any of the others such as MLflow, Comet, Neptune, WandB, etc.

.. testcode::

    comet_logger = pl_loggers.CometLogger(save_dir="logs/")
    trainer = Trainer(logger=comet_logger)

To use multiple loggers, simply pass in a ``list`` or ``tuple`` of loggers.

.. testcode::

    tb_logger = pl_loggers.TensorBoardLogger(save_dir="logs/")
    comet_logger = pl_loggers.CometLogger(save_dir="logs/")
    trainer = Trainer(logger=[tb_logger, comet_logger])

.. note::

    By default, Lightning logs every 50 steps. Use Trainer flags to :ref:`logging_frequency`.

.. note::

>     By default, all loggers log to ``os.getcwd()``. You can change the log path using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    By default, all loggers log to ``os.getcwd()``. You can change the logging path using
```

>     All loggers log by default to ``os.getcwd()``. To change the path without creating a logger set

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    By default, all loggers log to ``os.getcwd()``. You can change the log path by doing ``Trainer(default_root_dir='/your/path/to/save/checkpoints')`` without instantiating a logger.
```

Automatic Logging
=================
Use the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log`
method to log from anywhere in a :doc:`lightning module <../common/lightning_module>` and :doc:`callbacks <../extensions/callbacks>`.

.. code-block:: python

    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
        self.log("my_metric", x)

>     # or a dict to get multiple metrics on the same plot of the logger supports it

Author: ```suggestion
    # or a dict to get multiple metrics on the same plot if the logger supports it
```

    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):

>         self.log("performance", {"acc": acc, "recall": recall})

Reviewer 4: Or use:

```py
self.log("performance/acc", acc)
self.log("performance/recall", recall)
```

Author: no.. this is different. Your example will create `performance` and will create separate plots for each for acc and recall. The existing example will plot recall and acc on the same plot titled `performance`.

> Depending on where log is called from, Lightning auto-determines the correct logging mode for you. But of course you can

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Depending on where :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log` method is called, Lightning auto-determines the correct logging mode for you. Of course you can
```

override the default behavior by manually setting the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log` parameters.

.. code-block:: python

    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
        self.log("my_loss", loss, on_step=True, on_epoch=True, prog_bar=True, logger=True)

The :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log` method has a few options:

* ``on_step``: Logs the metric at the current step.
* ``on_epoch``: Automatically accumulates and logs at the end of the epoch.
* ``prog_bar``: Logs to the progress bar (Default: ``False``).

> * ``logger``: Logs to the logger like ``Tensorboard``, or any other custom logger passed to the

Reviewer 4: Let's list them all. `sync_dist`, etc..

Automatic Logging
=================
Use the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log`
method to log from anywhere in a :doc:`lightning module <../common/lightning_module>` and :doc:`callbacks <../extensions/callbacks>`.

.. code-block:: python

    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
        self.log("my_metric", x)

    # or a dict to get multiple metrics on the same plot if the logger supports it
    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
        self.log("performance", {"acc": acc, "recall": recall})

> Depending on where Use the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log` method is called, Lightning auto-determines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on where the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log` method is called, Lightning auto-determines
```

     - True
     - False
   * - on_validation_start, on_validation_epoch_start, on_validation_epoch_end, validation_epoch_end
     - False
     - True
   * - on_validation_batch_start, on_validation_batch_end, validation_step, validation_step_end
     - False
     - True

.. note::

    - The above config for ``val`` applies for ``test`` hooks as well.

    -   Setting ``on_epoch=True`` will cache all your logged values during the full training epoch and perform a
        reduction in ``on_train_epoch_end``. We recommend using `TorchMetrics <https://torchmetrics.readthedocs.io/>`_, when working with custom reduction.

    -   Setting both ``on_step=True`` and ``on_epoch=True`` will create two keys per metric you log with
        suffix ``_step`` and ``_epoch`` respectively. You can refer to these keys e.g. in the `monitor`
        argument of :class:`~pytorch_lightning.callbacks.model_checkpoint.ModelCheckpoint` or in the graphs plotted to the logger of your choice.

If your work requires to log in an unsupported method, please open an issue with a clear description of why it is blocking you.

Manual Logging Non-Scalar Artifacts
===================================

> If you want to log anything that is not a scalar, like histograms, text, images, etc. you may need to use the logger object directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to log anything that is not a scalar, like histograms, text, images, etc., you may need to use the logger object directly.
```

override the default behavior by manually setting the :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log` parameters.

.. code-block:: python

    def training_step(self, batch, batch_idx):
        self.log("my_loss", loss, on_step=True, on_epoch=True, prog_bar=True, logger=True)

The :meth:`~pytorch_lightning.core.lightning.LightningModule.log` method has a few options:

* ``on_step``: Logs the metric at the current step.
* ``on_epoch``: Automatically accumulates and logs at the end of the epoch.
* ``prog_bar``: Logs to the progress bar (Default: ``False``).
* ``logger``: Logs to the logger like ``Tensorboard``, or any other custom logger passed to the
    :class:`~pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer.Trainer` (Default: ``True``).

.. list-table:: Default behavior of logging in Callback or LightningModule
   :widths: 50 25 25
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Hook
     - on_step
     - on_epoch
   * - on_before_backward, on_after_backward, on_before_optimizer_step, on_before_zero_grad
     - False
     - True
   * - on_train_start, on_train_epoch_start, on_train_epoch_end, training_epoch_end
     - False
     - True

>    * - on_train_batch_start, on_train_batch_end

Author: don't resolve this one.. need to update once https://github.com/PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning/pull/10756 gets merged.

     - False
     - True
   * - training_step, training_step_end
     - True
     - False
   * - on_validation_start, on_validation_epoch_start, on_validation_epoch_end, validation_epoch_end
     - False
     - True
   * - on_validation_batch_start, on_validation_batch_end, validation_step, validation_step_end
     - False
     - True

.. note::

    - The above config for ``val`` applies for ``test`` hooks as well.

    -   Setting ``on_epoch=True`` will cache all your logged values during the full training epoch and perform a
        reduction in ``on_train_epoch_end``. We recommend using `TorchMetrics <https://torchmetrics.readthedocs.io/>`_, when working with custom reduction.

    -   Setting both ``on_step=True`` and ``on_epoch=True`` will create two keys per metric you log with
        suffix ``_step`` and ``_epoch`` respectively. You can refer to these keys e.g. in the `monitor`
        argument of :class:`~pytorch_lightning.callbacks.model_checkpoint.ModelCheckpoint` or in the graphs plotted to the logger of your choice.

If your work requires to log in an unsupported method, please open an issue with a clear description of why it is blocking you.

> Manual logging Non-Scalar Artifacts

Reviewer 3: I strongly suggest to either make all titles properly capitalized or not at all. For consistency. For the former, when in doubt, I recommend https://capitalizemytitle.com/

Author: thanks! updated!!

=================

It may slow training down to log every single batch. By default, Lightning logs every 50 rows, or 50 training steps.
To change this behaviour, set the ``log_every_n_steps`` :class:`~pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer.Trainer` flag.

.. testcode::

   k = 10
   trainer = Trainer(log_every_n_steps=k)

Log writing frequency
=====================

Writing to a logger can be expensive, so by default Lightning writes logs to disk or to the given logger every 100 training steps.

> To change this behaviour, set the interval at which you wish to flush logs to the filesystem using the ``flush_logs_every_n_steps`` :class:`~pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer.Trainer` flag.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you wish to flush logs to the filesystem at a different steps rate, use the ``flush_logs_every_n_steps`` :class:`~pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer.Trainer` flag.
```

----------

***********************
Logging Hyperparameters
***********************

When training a model, it is useful to know what hyperparams went into that model.
When Lightning creates a checkpoint, it stores a key ``"hyper_parameters"`` with the hyperparams.

.. code-block:: python

    lightning_checkpoint = torch.load(filepath, map_location=lambda storage, loc: storage)
    hyperparams = lightning_checkpoint["hyper_parameters"]

Some loggers also allow logging the hyperparams used in the experiment. For instance,

> when using the ``TestTubeLogger`` or the ``TensorBoardLogger``, all hyperparams will show

Reviewer: Same comment about `TestTubeLogger`
